# Credit_Card_Fraud_Detection
Credit Card Fraud can be defined as a case where a person uses someone else’s credit card for personal reasons while the owner and the card issuing authorities are unaware of the fact that the card is being used. Due to rise and acceleration of E- Commerce, there has been a tremendous use of credit cards for online shopping which led to High amount of frauds related to credit cards. In the era of digitalization, the need to identify credit card frauds is necessary. Fraud detection involves monitoring and analyzing the behavior of various users in order to estimate detect or avoid undesirable behavior. In order to identify credit card fraud detection effectively, we need to understand the various technologies, algorithms and types involved in detecting credit card frauds. Algorithm can differentiate transactions which are fraudulent or not. Find fraud, they need to passed dataset and knowledge of fraudulent transaction. They analyze the dataset and classify all transactions. Fraud detection involves monitoring the activities of populations of users in order to estimate, perceive or avoid objectionable behavior, which consist of fraud, intrusion, and defaulting. Machine learning algorithms are employed to analyses all the authorized transactions and report the suspicious ones. These reports are investigated by professionals who contact the cardholders to confirm if the transaction was genuine or fraudulent.
 So, Here I have an Anonymized credit card transactions raw dataset. First I imported all the imporatant libraries and then uploaded the data set . at first I analysed data nature
 and meaning of every variable. here time of transaction is in sec format so i converted it into date time format , In data set Class represent type of transaction, it is genuine 
 transaction or fraud transaction. here class--> 0  represent Genuine transaction and Class--> 1 represent Fraud transaction. atfirst Exploratory Data Analysis is done and through
 analysis , I analysed that data set is highly Unbalanced . Hence model will give wrong prediction if the data will be unbalaced so first I balanced the data and then did the Model
 Preparation . I have analysed this Data by Random Forest Model and then Gradient boosting Model to detect fraud transaction .
